- [Instructor] Now, I'm referring to my exercise notes here.
Setting up portworx require a bit of a setup.
I'm not going to show through the setup,
but I'm going to talk through the setup here,
and then we will show the real
docker volume plug in part of it.
The first step was to really set up a EC2 Instance.
Port locks runs only on Linux,
so I set up a Ubunts 14.04,
set up 8091 as an inbound rule,
so that I can access couchbase over there
and install Docker.
Then I create a EBS volume
and I also attach it to the EC2 Instance.
I created the XCD cluster.
That cluster is what stores my mapping
between containers and volumes.
Then I started the PX dev containers.
They're a bunch of volumes
that have been mapped.
It simplifies me to run the cluster
and access the portworx client
to see the status.
Alright, now let's log into this EC2 Instance
and see what we can do with it.
I'm in my EC2 console.
This is the image that was started.
Let's take the IP address here
and stop the output from the previous run here
and I'm going to log in
to the Instance that was created.
Alright, I'm logged into the Instance.
Let's clear up the screen here for a second.
So now I can look at
Docker container LS
and it shows me that my SCD container is running
and PX-dev container is running.
I can also do sudo /opt/pwx/bin/pxctl
which is the command line for portworx client
and I can say, show me the status.
It says PX is operational.
It also shows me that there's a 10 gigabyte
of storage full that is available.
It shows the region in which it's available
an finally, it shows the total capacity is 10.
I could have had multiple pools over there.
It shows the total used capacity as well.
Okay?
So with that what I'm going to do
is now, I'm going to create
a Docker volume.
So Docker volume.
Let's see what volumes exist right now.
Well, there are only a couple
and the driver is local.
So let's create our Docker volume using
portworx.
So I'm going to create a Docker volume,
call it the driver as pxd.
This is possible because my px-dev container
is running.
Then I'm going to give it some options.
I'm going to say size equals 10G.
I could have taken a smaller size as well
but I'm just going to consume that entire
EBS drive that was created for me.
I'm going to specify the file system here
and I'm going to give the volume a name.
Let's look at our volume listing again.
And now, I have a CB wall
and the driver is PXT.
So that's kind of cool.
Now, I'm going to fire up my Docker container
and use this volume.
So I'm going to say, Docker container run
in a detached mode.
Call it DB and I'm going to expose
the port, 80-91 so that I can access
the couchbase web console.
And I'm going to say, arungupta/couchbase.
Well what's missing in this case is,
the volume.
Because that's the thing that we're trying to show here.
CB wall is my volume name
and this is going to map into the container
to (mumbles) couchbase war.
Okay?
Let's run this container.
And this is a brand new EC2 Instance
of course it's going to download the image
and then it's going to run the container for me.
Alright, the container is up and running.
So if we can say Docker container inspect
and I can say DB,
it shows me a lot more details here
but the ones that we care about
are right about here.
It's the (mumbles).
It says CB Wall is the volume name.
The source is specified over here
and this is the destination.
Okay?
So it shows that the volumes are mapped correctly.
So what I'm going to do is now
go to my browser and use the IP address
of the EC2 Instance
and log into my couchbased web console.
Copy the IP address here.
We can clean up the step
and open up a new tab here.
Go here and I'm going to say, 8091 here.
My log in is the same for all the images.
Administrator, with capital A
and the password is Password.
Go in here.
I'm going into data buckets.
Create a new data bucket here.
Call it Docker.
The bucket is created for me now.
And at this point,
I can actually go back into my EC2 Instance.
And I can say, Docker container RM-FDB.
Because the container could crash potentially.
So I'm going to scratch the container right here.
Okay?`
Let's restart the container
with the same volume mapping.
The container has started but let's take a look
at the logs.
Docker container logs -f db.
After waiting for a few seconds,
the rest API has invoked.
If I go back to my browser,
I can refresh the page here
and it shows me the log in page automatically actually.
Once I log in,
I look at my data buckets,
Bingo.
So my Docker bucket still exists over there.
So that is pretty cool.
So in the section we saw
how we can use Docker volume plug-in.
Particularly use portworx plug-in
to store our data on an Amazon EBS volume.
Okay?
Now, because you're running on Amazon
you want to make sure you clean up your resources
so in order to do the clean up
I'm going to pick up my instruments here
and select the Instance and terminate the Instance here.
So terminate the Instance.
So the instance here is shutting down
and now, I can go look at my volumes
and my volume, we could have detached it
earlier or we could detach it now,
but once the volume is detached,
I can go ahead and delete the volume here.
So remember in terms of clean up, you need to
terminate your EC2 Instance.
You need to detach the volume
and you need to remove the volume.
So make sure you clean up the resources as well.